---
title: What is Creation?
---

What is Creation?
{: .lesson-header}

Creation is the sum of all God's thoughts, in number infinite and
everywhere without all limit. Only Love creates and only like Itself.
There was no time when all that It created was not there. Nor will there
be a time when anything that It created suffers any change. Forever and
forever are God's thoughts exactly as they were and as they are,
unchanged through time and after time is done.

<sup>2</sup> God's thoughts are given all the power that Their own
Creator has. For He would add to Love by its extension. Thus His Son
shares in creation and must therefore share in power to create. What God
has willed to be forever one will still be one when time is over and
will not be changed throughout the course of time, remaining as it was
before the thought of time began.

<sup>3</sup> Creation is the opposite of all illusions, for creation is
the truth. Creation is the holy Son of God, for in creation is His Will
complete in every aspect, making every part container of the whole. Its
oneness is forever guaranteed inviolate, forever held within His holy
will beyond all possibility of harm, of separation, imperfection, and of
any spot upon its sinlessness.

<sup>4</sup> We are creationâ€”we the Sons of God. We seem to be discrete
and unaware of our eternal unity with Him. Yet back of all our doubts,
past all our fears, there still is certainty. For Love remains with all
Its thought, Its sureness being theirs. God's memory is in our holy
minds, which know their oneness and their unity with their Creator. Let
our function be only to let this memory return, only to let God's Will
be done on earth, only to be restored to sanity, and to be but as God
created us.

<sup>5</sup> Our Father calls to us. We hear His Voice, and we forgive
creation in the name of its Creator, Holiness Itself, Whose holiness His
own creation shares; Whose holiness is still a part of us.

