---
title: Salvation is my only function here.
ref: "99"
---

Salvation is my only function here.
{: .lesson-header}

<sup>1</sup> Salvation and forgiveness are the same. They both imply
that something has gone wrong—something you need to be saved from or
forgiven for, something amiss that needs corrective change, something
apart or different from the Will of God. Thus do both terms imply the
thought of the impossible which has occurred, resulting in a state of
conflict now between what is and what could never be.

<sup>2</sup> Truth and illusions both are equal now, for both have
happened. The impossible becomes the thing you need forgiveness for,
salvation from. Salvation is the borderland between the truth and
illusion. It reflects the truth because it is the means by which you can
escape illusions. Yet it is not truth because it undoes what was never
done.

<sup>3</sup> How could there be a meeting place at all where earth and
Heaven can be reconciled within a mind where both of them exist? The
mind that sees illusions thinks them real. They have existence in that
they are thoughts. And yet they are not real because the mind that
thinks these thoughts is separate from God.

<sup>4</sup> What joins the separated mind and thoughts with Mind and
thought which are forever one? What plan could hold the truth inviolate,
yet recognize the need illusions bring and offer means by which they are
undone without attack and with no touch of pain? What but a thought of
God could be this plan by which the never done is overlooked and sins
forgotten which were never real?

<sup>5</sup> The Holy Spirit holds this plan of God exactly as it was
received of Him within the Mind of God and in your own. It is apart from
time in that its Source is timeless. Yet it operates in time because of
your belief that time is real. Unshaken does the Holy Spirit look on
what you see—on sin and pain and death, on grief and separation, and on
loss. Yet does He know one thing must still be true—God still is Love,
and this is not His Will.

<sup>6</sup> This is the thought which brings illusions to the truth,
and sees them as appearances behind which is the changeless and the
sure. This is the thought which saves and which forgives, because it
lays no faith in what is not created by the only Source it knows. This
is the thought whose function is to save by giving you its function as
your own.

<sup>7</sup> Salvation is your function with the One to Whom the plan
was given. Now are you entrusted with this plan, along with Him. He has
one answer to appearances regardless of their form, their size, their
depth, or any attribute they seem to have:

<sup>8</sup> *Salvation is my only function here.<br/>
God still is Love, and this is not His Will.*

<sup>9</sup> You who will yet work miracles, be sure you practice well
the idea for today. Try to perceive the strength in what you say, for
these are words in which your freedom lies. Your Father loves you. All
the world of pain is not His Will. Forgive yourself the thought He
wanted this for you. Then let the thought with which He has replaced all
your mistakes enter the darkened places of your mind which thought the
thoughts that never were His Will.

<sup>10</sup> This part belongs to God, as does the rest. It does not
think its solitary thoughts and make them real by hiding them from Him.
Let in the light, and you will look upon no obstacle to what He wills
for you. Open your secrets to His kindly Light, and see how bright this
Light still shines in you.

<sup>11</sup> Practice His thought today, and let His Light seek out and
lighten up all darkened spots and shine through them to join them to the
rest. It is God's Will your mind be one with His. It is God's Will that
He has but one Son. It is God's Will that His one Son is you.

<sup>12</sup> Think of these things in practicing today, and start your
longer practice periods with this instruction in the way of truth:

<sup>13</sup> *Salvation is my only function here.<br/>
Salvation and forgiveness are the same.*

<sup>14</sup> Then turn to Him who shares your function here, and let
Him teach you what you need to learn to lay all fear aside and know your
Self as Love Which has no opposite in you.

<sup>15</sup> Forgive all thoughts which would oppose the truth of your
completeness, unity, and peace. You cannot lose the gifts your Father
gave. You do not want to be another self. You have no function that is
not of God. Forgive yourself the one you think you made. Forgiveness and
salvation are the same. Forgive what you have made, and you are saved.

<sup>16</sup> You have a special message for today which has the power
to remove all forms of doubt and fear forever from your mind. If you are
tempted to believe them true, remember that appearances cannot withstand
the truth these mighty words contain:

<sup>17</sup> *Salvation is my only function here.<br/>
God still is Love, and this is not His Will.*  

<sup>18</sup> Your only function tells you you are one. Remind yourself
of this between the times you give five minutes to be shared with Him
Who shares God's plan with you. Remind yourself:

<sup>19</sup> *Salvation is my only function here.*

<sup>20</sup> Thus do you lay forgiveness on your mind and let all fear
be gently laid aside that Love may find Its rightful place in you and
show you that you are the Son of God.

