---
title: I am as God created me.
ref: "110"
---

I am as God created me.
{: .lesson-header}

<sup>1</sup> We will repeat today's idea from time to time. For this one
thought would be enough to save you and the world if you believed that
it is true. Its truth would mean that you have made no changes in
yourself which have reality, nor changed the universe so that what God
created was replaced by fear and evil, misery and death.

<sup>2</sup> If you remain as God created you, fear has no meaning, evil
is not real, and misery and death do not exist. Today's idea is
therefore all you need to let complete correction heal your mind and
give you perfect vision which will heal all the mistakes that any mind
has made at any time or place. It is enough to heal the past and make
the future free. It is enough to let the present be accepted as it is.
It is enough to let time be the means for all the world to learn escape
from time and every change that time appears to bring in passing by.

<sup>3</sup> If you remain as God created you, appearances cannot
replace the truth, health cannot turn to sickness, nor can death be
substitute for life or fear for love. All this has not occurred if you
remain as God created you. You need no thought but just this one to let
redemption come to light the world and free it from the past.

<sup>4</sup> In this one thought is all the past undone; the present
saved to quietly extend into a timeless future. If you are as God
created you, then there has been no separation of your mind from His, no
split between your mind and other minds, and only unity within your own.

<sup>5</sup> The healing power of today's idea is limitless. It is the
birthplace of all miracles, the great restorer of the truth to the
awareness of the world. Practice today's idea with gratitude. This is
the truth that comes to set you free. This is the truth that God has
promised you. This is the Word in which all sorrow ends.

<sup>6</sup> For your five minute practice periods, begin with this
quotation from the text:

<sup>7</sup> *I am as God created me.<br/>
His Son can suffer nothing.<br/>
And I am His Son.*

<sup>8</sup> Then, with this statement firmly in your mind, try to
discover in your mind the Self Who is the holy Son of God Himself. Seek
Him within you Who is Christ in you, the Son of God and brother to the
worldâ€”the savior who has been forever saved, with power to save whoever
touches Him however lightly, asking for the Word that tells him he is
brother unto Him.

<sup>9</sup> You are as God created you. Today honor your Self. Let
graven images you made to be the Son of God instead of what He is be
worshiped not today. Deep in your mind the holy Christ in you is waiting
your acknowledgment as you. And you are lost and do not know yourself
while He is unacknowledged and unknown.

<sup>10</sup> Seek Him today, and find Him. He will be your savior from
all idols you have made. For when you find Him you will understand how
worthless are your idols and how false the images which you believed
were you. Today we make a great advance to truth by letting idols go and
opening our hands and hearts and minds to God today.

<sup>11</sup> We will remember Him throughout the day with thankful
hearts and loving thoughts for all who meet with us today, for it is
thus that we remember Him. And we will say, that we may be reminded of
His Son, our holy Self, the Christ in each of us:

<sup>12</sup> *I am as God created me.*

<sup>13</sup> Let us declare this truth as often as we can. This is the
Word of God that sets you free. This is the key that opens up the gate
of Heaven, and which lets you enter in the peace of God and His
eternity.

