---
title: All things are lessons God would have me learn.
ref: "193"
---

All things are lessons God would have me learn.
{: .lesson-header}

<sup>1</sup> God does not know of learning. Yet His Will extends to what
He does not understand in that He wills the happiness His Son inherited
of Him be undisturbed, eternal and forever gaining scope, eternally
expanding in the joy of full creation, and eternally open and wholly
limitless in Him. This is His Will. And thus His Will provides the means
to guarantee that it is done.

\[<sup>2</sup> God sees no contradictions. Yet His Son believes he sees them. Thus he has a need for One Who can correct his erring sight and give him vision that will lead him back to where perception ceases. God does not perceive at all. Yet it is He Who gives the means by which perception is made true and beautiful enough to let the light of Heaven shine upon it. It is He Who answers what His Son would contradict and keeps his sinlessness forever safe.

<sup>3</sup> God offers no forgiveness, for He knows no sin is possible.
And yet He let His holy law of Love be given form in which it could be
offered to the world. And He created One Who could perceive what form
this law should take, to be received by every mind which had forgotten
it as it exists in Heaven and in God. Thus He encompassed what He could
not see nor understand by giving of His Love and making Answer to a
question which, though meaningless, His Son had asked of Him.\]

<sup>4</sup> The One Whom God created to replace the foolish thoughts
which crept into the mind of His most holy Son with peace and joy
fulfills His function now. He redirects each lesson you would teach in
hate to one in which forgiveness enters, and returns the hate to love,
so that the fear is gone. And now guilt cannot enter, for its source has
been excluded as the purpose of the lesson has been changed to
guiltlessness; the hatred has been rooted out by love.

<sup>5</sup> These are the lessons God would have you learn. His Will
reflects them all, and they reflect His loving kindness to the Son He
loves. Each lesson has a central thought, the same in all of them. The
form alone is changed, with different circumstances and events, with
different characters and different themes apparent but not real. They
are the same in fundamental content. It is this:

<sup>6</sup> *Forgive and you will see this differently*.

<sup>7</sup> Certain it is that all distress does not appear to be but
unforgiveness. Yet that is the content underneath the form. It is this
sameness which makes learning sure because the lesson is so simple that
it cannot be rejected in the end. No one can hide forever from a truth
so very obvious that it appears in countless forms and yet is recognized
as easily in all of them if one but wants to see the simple lesson
there.

<sup>8</sup> *Forgive and you will see this differently.*

<sup>9</sup> These are the words the Holy Spirit speaks in all your
tribulations, all your pain, all suffering regardless of its forms.
These are the words with which temptation ends and guilt, abandoned, is
revered no more. These are the words which end the dream of sin and rid
the mind of fear. These are the words by which salvation comes to all
the world.

<sup>10</sup> Shall we not learn to say these words when we are tempted
to believe that pain is real and death becomes our choice instead of
life? Shall we not learn to say these words when we have understood
their power to release all minds from bondage? These are words which
give you power over all events which seem to have been given power over
you. You see them rightly when you hold these words in full awareness,
and do not forget these words apply to everything you see or any brother
looks upon amiss.

<sup>11</sup> How can you tell when you are seeing wrong or someone else
is failing to perceive the lesson he should learn? Does pain seem real
in the perception? If it does, be sure the lesson is not learned. And
there remains an unforgiveness hiding in the mind which sees the pain
through eyes the mind directs.

<sup>12</sup> God would not have you suffer thus. He would help you
forgive yourself. His Son does not remember who he is. And God would
have him not forget His Love and all the gifts His Love brings with it.
Would you now renounce your own salvation? Would you fail to learn the
simple lessons Heaven's Teacher sets before you that all pain may
disappear and God may be remembered by His Son?

<sup>13</sup> All things are lessons God would have you learn. He would
not leave an unforgiving thought without correction nor one thorn or
nail to hurt His sacred Son in any way. He would ensure his holy rest
remain untroubled and serene, without a care in an eternal home which
cares for him. And He would have all tears be wiped away with none
remaining yet unshed and none but waiting their appointed time to fall.
For God has willed that laughter should replace each one and that His
Son be free again.

<sup>14</sup> We will attempt today to overcome a thousand seeming
obstacles to peace in just one day. Let mercy come to you more quickly.
Do not try to hold it off another day, another minute, or another
instant. Time was made for this. Use it today for what its purpose is.
Morning and night, devote what time you can to serve its proper aim, and
do not let the time be less than meets your deepest need.

<sup>15</sup> Give all you can and give a little more, for now we would
arise in haste and go unto our Father's house. We have been gone too
long, and we would linger here no more. And as we practice, let us think
about all things we saved to settle by ourselves and kept apart from
healing. Let us give them all to Him Who knows the way to look upon them
so that they will disappear. Truth is His message; truth His teaching
is. His are the lessons God would have us learn.

<sup>16</sup> Each hour spend a little time today, and in the days to
come, in practicing the lesson in forgiveness in the form established
for the day. And try to give it application to the happenings the hour
brought, so that the next one is free of the one before. The chains of
time are easily unloosened in this way.

<sup>17</sup> Let no one hour cast its shadow on the one that follows,
and when that one goes, let everything that happens in its course go
with it. Thus will you remain unbound, in peace eternal in the world of
time. This is the lesson God would have you learn: there is a way to
look on everything that lets it be to you another step to Him and to
salvation of the world.

<sup>18</sup> To all that speaks of terror, answer thus:

<sup>19</sup> *I will forgive and this will disappear*.

<sup>20</sup> To every apprehension, every care, and every form of
suffering, repeat these selfsame words. And then you hold the key that
opens Heaven's gate and brings the Love of God the Father down to earth
at last, to raise it up to Heaven. God will take this final step
Himself. Do not deny the little steps He asks you take to Him.

