---
title: Review Lessons 181 - 200
ref: "Introduction"
---

Review Six
{: .lesson-header}

For this review, we take but one idea each day, and practice it as often
as is possible. Besides the time we give morning and evening, which
should not be less than 15 minutes, and the hourly remembrances we make
throughout the day, use the idea as often as you can between them. Each
of these ideas alone would be sufficient for salvation, if it were
learned truly. Each would be enough to give release to you and to the
world from every form of bondage and invite the memory of God to come
again.

<sup>2</sup> With this in mind, we start our practicing in which we
carefully review the thoughts the Holy Spirit has bestowed on us in our
last 20 lessons. Each contains the whole curriculum if understood,
practiced, accepted, and applied to all the seeming happenings
throughout the day. One is enough. But for that one, there must be no
exceptions made. And so we need to use them all and let them blend as
one, as each contributes to the whole we learn.

<sup>3</sup> These practice sessions, like our last review, are centered
round a central theme with which we start and end each lesson. It is
this:

<sup>4</sup> *I am not a body. I am free.<br/>
For I am still as God created me*.

<sup>5</sup> The day begins and ends with this. And we repeat it every
time the hour strikes or we remember in between we have a function that
transcends the world we see. Beyond this and a repetition of the special
thought we practice for the day, no form of exercise is urged except a
deep relinquishment of everything that clutters up the mind and makes it
deaf to reason, sanity, and simple truth.

<sup>6</sup> We will attempt to get beyond all words and special forms
of practicing for this review. For we attempt this time to reach a
quickened pace along a shorter path to the serenity and peace of God. We
merely close our eyes and then forget all that we thought we knew and
understood. For thus is freedom given us from all we did not know and
failed to understand.

<sup>7</sup> There is but one exception to this lack of structuring.
Permit no idle thought to go unchallenged. If you notice one, deny its
hold and hasten to assure your mind that this is not what it would have.
Then gently let the thought which you denied be given up in sure and
quick exchange for the idea we practice for the day.

<sup>8</sup> When you are tempted, hasten to proclaim your freedom from
temptation, as you say:

<sup>9</sup> This thought I do not want. I choose insteadâ€¦.

<sup>10</sup> And then repeat the idea for the day, and let it take the
place of what you thought. Beyond such special applications of each
day's idea, we will add but few formal expressions for specific thoughts
to aid your practicing. Instead we give these times of quiet to the
Teacher Who instructs in quiet, speaks of peace, and gives our thoughts
whatever meaning they may have.

<sup>11</sup> To Him I offer this review for you. I place you in His
charge and let Him teach you what to do and say and think each time you
turn to Him. He will not fail to be available to you each time you call
to Him to help you. Let us offer Him the whole review we now begin, and
let us also not forget to Whom it has been given as we practice day by
day, advancing toward the goal He set for us, allowing Him to teach us
how to go, and trusting Him completely for the way each practice period
can best become a loving gift of freedom to the world.

