---
title: "Review III: Lessons 91 - 110"
ref: "Introduction"
---

Review Three
{: .lesson-header}

Our third review begins today. We will review two of the last 20 ideas
each day until we have reviewed them all. We will observe a special
format for these practice periods, which you are urged to follow just as
closely as you can. We understand, of course, that it may be impossible
for you to undertake what is suggested here as optimal each day and
every hour of the day.

<sup>2</sup> Learning will not be hampered when you miss a practice
period because it is impossible at the appointed time. Nor is it
necessary that you make excessive efforts to be sure that you catch up
in terms of numbers. Rituals are not our aim and would defeat our goal.

<sup>3</sup> But learning will be hampered when you skip a practice
period because you are unwilling to devote the time to it which you are
asked to give. Do not deceive yourself in this. Unwillingness can be
most carefully concealed behind a cloak of situations you cannot
control. Learn to distinguish situations which are poorly suited to your
practicing from those which you establish to uphold a camouflage for
your unwillingness.

<sup>4</sup> Those practice periods which you have lost because you did
not want to do them for whatever reason should be done as soon as you
have changed your mind about your goal. You are unwilling to cooperate
in practicing salvation only if it interferes with goals you hold more
dear. When you withdraw the value given them, allow your practice
periods to be replacements for your litanies to them. They gave you
nothing. But your practicing can offer everything to you. And so accept
its offering and be at peace.

<sup>5</sup> The format you should use for these reviews is this: devote
five minutes twice a day, or longer if you would prefer, to considering
the thoughts that are assigned. Read over the ideas and comments which
are written first in each day's exercise. And then begin to think about
them while letting your mind relate them to your needs, your seeming
problems, and all your concerns.

<sup>6</sup> Place the ideas within your mind and let it use them as it
chooses. Give it faith that it will use them wisely, being helped in its
decisions by the One Who gave the thoughts to you. What can you trust
but what is in your mind? Have faith in these reviews, the means the
Holy Spirit uses will not fail. The wisdom of your mind will come to
your assistance. Give direction at the start, and then lean back in
quiet faith and let the mind employ the thoughts you gave as they were
given you for it to use.

<sup>7</sup> You have been given them in perfect trust, in perfect
confidence that you would use them well, in perfect faith that you would
see their messages and use them for yourself. Offer them to your mind in
that same trust and confidence and faith. It will not fail. It is the
Holy Spirit's chosen means for your salvation. Since it has His trust,
His means must surely merit yours as well.

<sup>8</sup> We emphasize the benefits to you if you devote the first
five minutes of the day to your review and also give the last five
minutes of your waking day to it. If this cannot be done, at least try
to divide them so you undertake one in the morning and the other in the
hour just before you go to sleep.

<sup>9</sup> The exercises to be done throughout the day are equally
important and perhaps of even greater value. You have been inclined to
practice only at appointed times and then go on your way to other things
without applying what you learned to them. As a result, you have gained
little reinforcement and have not given it the opportunity to prove how
great are its potential gifts to you.

<sup>10</sup> Here is another chance to use it well. In these reviews we
stress the need to let your learning not lie idly by between your longer
practice periods. Attempt to give your daily two ideas a brief but
serious review each hour. Use one on the hour and the other one a half
an hour later. You need not give more than just a moment to each one.

<sup>11</sup> Repeat it, and allow your mind to rest a little time in
silence and in peace. Then turn to other things, but try to keep the
thought with you and let it serve to help you keep your peace throughout
the day as well. If you are shaken, think of it again. These practice
periods are planned to help you form the habit of applying what you
learn each day to everything you do.

<sup>12</sup> Do not repeat it and then lay it down. Its usefulness is
limitless to you. And it is meant to serve you in all ways, all times
and places, and whenever you need help of any kind. Try, then, to take
it with you in the business of the day and make it holy, worthy of God's
Son, acceptable to God and to your Self.

<sup>13</sup> Each day's review assignment will conclude with a
restatement of the thought to use each hour and the one to be applied on
each half hour as well. Forget them not. This second chance with each of
these ideas will bring such large advances that we come from these
reviews with learning gains so great that we begin again on solid
ground, with firmer footsteps and with stronger faith.

<sup>14</sup> Do not forget how little you have learned. Do not forget
how much you can learn now. Do not forget your Father's need of you as
you review these thoughts He gave to you.

