---
title: "Review II: Lessons 61 - 80"
ref: "Introduction"
---

Review Two
{: .lesson-header}

We are now ready for another review. We will begin where our last review
left off and cover two ideas each day. The earlier part of each day will
be devoted to one of these ideas, and the latter part of the day to the
other. We will have one longer exercise period and frequent shorter ones
in which we practice each of them.

<sup>2</sup> The longer practice periods will follow this general form:
take about 15 minutes for each of them, and begin by thinking about the
idea and the comments which are included in the assignments. Devote
about three or four minutes to reading them over slowly, several times
if you wish, and then close your eyes and listen. Repeat the first phase
if you find your mind wandering, but try to spend the major part of the
practice period listening quietly but attentively.

<sup>3</sup> There is a message waiting for you. Be confident that you
will receive it. Remember that it belongs to you and that you want it.
Do not allow your intent to waver in the face of distracting thoughts.
Realize that, whatever form such thoughts may take, they have no meaning
and no power.  Replace them with your determination to succeed. Do not
forget that your will has power over all fantasies and dreams. Trust it
to see you through and carry you beyond them all.

<sup>4</sup> Regard these practice periods as dedications to the way,
the truth, and the life. Refuse to be side-tracked into detours,
illusions, and thoughts of death. You are dedicated to salvation. Be
determined each day not to leave your function unfulfilled.

<sup>5</sup> Reaffirm your determination in the shorter practice periods
as well, using the original form of the idea for general application and
a more specific form when needed. Some specific forms will be included
in the comments. These, however, are merely suggestions. It is not the
particular words you use that matter.

