---
title: Forward
---

*This course is a beginning, not an end. Your Friend goes with you. You
are not alone. No one who calls on Him can call in vain. Whatever
troubles you, be certain that He has the answer and will gladly give it
to you if you simply turn to Him and ask it of Him. He will not withhold
all answers that you need for anything that seems to trouble you. He
knows the way to solve all problems and resolve all doubts. His
certainty is yours. You need but ask it of Him, and it will be given
you.*

*You are as certain of arriving home as is the pathway of the sun laid
down before it rises, after it has set, and in the half-lit hours in
between. Indeed, your pathway is more certain still, for it cannot be
possible to change the course of those whom God has called to Him.
Therefore obey your will, and follow Him Whom you accepted as your
Voice, to speak of what you really want and really need. His is the
Voice for God, and also yours. And thus He speaks of freedom and of
truth.*[^1]

With these words, *A Course in Miracles* concludes its prescribed
curriculum of 365 daily lessons, and it is with these words, too, that
we begin our study.

*A Course in Miracles* (often called just “the *Course*”) is a
self-study course for retraining the mind that is spiritual, rather than
religious, in its perspective. Although it uses Christian terminology,
it is ecumenical in its approach, and its underlying ontology is
reminiscent of ancient refrains, echoing the world's most hallowed
traditions.

The *Course* is pragmatic in its method, and its aim is a peaceful mind:
*“Knowledge is not the motivation for learning this course. Peace
is.”*[^2] Nevertheless, the *Course* frequently emphasizes its
simplicity.[^3]

The story of the *Course* began when, in the midst of an environment of
intense competition and negative attitudes, Columbia University clinical
psychologist Dr. William T. Thetford decided he had had enough and
declared to his colleague, Dr. Helen Schucman, “There must be a better
way, and I'm determined to find it.” Dr. Schucman vowed to help him.

What ensued was a dramatic progression of waking dreams for Schucman,
which culminated in October 1965 with her experience of a voice which
spoke clearly in her mind, saying “This is a course in miracles. Please
take notes.”

With Thetford's support and assistance in transcribing her shorthand
notes, Schucman took down some 1,500 typewritten pages of *A Course in
Miracles* over a period of seven years.

Schucman did not claim to be the author of the material herself. As she
often explained, she heard a kind of inner dictation and she felt
compelled to write it down, even though at times she disagreed with the
content and resisted the process. The voice which spoke through Helen
clearly identifies himself as Jesus. Nonetheless, one need not be
Christian nor accept Christianity's traditional doctrines to benefit
from the teachings of the *Course*. Indeed, traditional Christians will
at first find many of the pronouncements contained in this work to be
startling and perhaps unbelievable. Persistence and open-mindedness will
nevertheless be rewarded.

The dictation of *A Course in Miracles* was completed in September 1972
and resulted in three volumes—the Text, the Workbook for Students, and
the Manual for Teachers. As the development of the material progressed,
Schucman and Thetford faced the formidable task of organizing the
original typescript (often called the “Urtext”) into what would become
*A Course in Miracles*. They divided the Text into chapters and sections
and gave titles to each, and they removed a great deal of material from
the early chapters, material they believed was meant for them
personally, not for the Course. The edition that resulted from those
efforts is the book you hold in your hands.

The Text volume of the *Original Edition* has undergone an evolutionary
process since the 1972 manuscript of *A Course in Miracles* was
discovered and released on the internet in late 1999. In early 2000
Course in Miracles Society (CIMS) printed the 1972 manuscript of the
Text as *Jesus’ Course in Miracles*.  Distribution of that book was
suspended during the continuance of the copyright litigation, which was
concluded in early 2006.

In November 2006 the initial printing of the *Original Edition*
(referred to as the 2006 Printing), containing the Workbook for Students
and Manual for Teachers in addition to the Text, was released. The 2006
Printing corrected numerous typographic errors, misspellings, and
aberrant punctuation that had appeared in the original 1972 manuscript
and which were reproduced in the *Jesus’ Course in Miracles* edition.

There was a second printing in 2009 (referred to as the 2009 Printing)
which continued the process of correcting errors in the manuscript. In
this undertaking the editors for the first time looked back to earlier
manuscripts and restored material that appeared to have been
inadvertently or mistakenly omitted in retyping. This process of
restoration has continued through the 2012, 2017, and 2018 Printings,
adhering always to the fundamental directive, “fidelity to Source.”
Among the improvements, beginning in the 2012 Printing, was the updating
of paragraph numbering in Chapters 2, 9, 26, and 27, necessitated mainly
by the restoration of material from an earlier manuscript. Paragraph
renumbering is described in footnotes where pertinent.

In its continuing evolution, this *Original Edition* faithfully
reproduces the original transcript of the book that was the result of
the collaboration between Schucman and Thetford, whom many believe were
involved with each other in the “holy relationship” described in
Chapters 17 through 22 of the Text. This edition preserves the original
language of the dictation of those chapters, which were addressed to the
two collaborators as they worked together to produce the manuscript.
Later editing of the manuscript changed the focus of these important
chapters and addresses them to a solitary reader, removing the mutuality
that is explicit in the original dictation.

It seems clear that this Original Edition is what Schucman and Thetford
originally intended to be *A Course in Miracles*. However, in 1973 Ken
Wapnick, who had joined their small circle and received a copy of the
1972 manuscript, expressed his belief that additional editing was
needed. Thetford withdrew from further detailed editing work, and
Schucman and Wapnick resumed the editing process. Along with changes in
paragraphing, punctuation, capitalization, and section titles, there was
a great deal of line-by-line editing. In addition, about one-fifth of
the material in the first five chapters was removed. Finally, a new
section, the Clarification of Terms, was added. The resulting edition,
published in 1975 by the Foundation for Inner Peace, became the *Course*
with which the world would become familiar.

While we honor that edition of the *Course*, we believe that the
additional editing resulted both in shifts of meaning and a change in
the over-all tone of the work. When encountering Schucman and Thetford's
Original Edition, students often find fresh clarity as they read its
wording or new understanding as they encounter passages that were not
included in the later 1975 edition. In the case of editing, it seems to
us that the “less-is-best” rule applies—the less tampering with the
eloquent and carefully worded dictation that Schucman received, the
better.

In this *Original Edition*, we have taken great care in dealing with the
editorial issues presented by the original typed manuscript. Our focus
has been upon reproducing as nearly as possible the content as it was
originally given to Schucman and Thetford. It is to be noted, however,
that there are a few occasions where we encountered material from the
original dictation that appears to have been inadvertently or mistakenly
dropped in the early retyping. In those instances, we have re-inserted
the missing lines, noting our addition by placing the inserted material
in square brackets. Otherwise, the only changes that have been made to
the original manuscript of the *Course* as completed by Schucman and
Thetford have been to correct obvious typographic errors and
misspellings, to standardize punctuation and capitalization, and to
format the material for print publication. Apart from the simple section
and paragraph numbering which we include for ease of reference and
navigation, nothing has been added to or omitted from the work.

We would be remiss were we to fail to acknowledge the selfless support
provided to the Course in Miracles Society by its members and others.
From its earliest days, the work of the Society has been enabled by
tireless contributions of labor and generous financial support provided
by many individuals whose only compensation has been the satisfaction of
fostering the circulation of this sacred writing in the world. To those
supporters and all of our members, we extend a sincere “thank you.” We
are most grateful.

~Course in Miracles Society

[^1]: WkBk.E.1-2
[^2]: Tx.8.1
[^3]: For example, see Tx.9.29, 10.74, and 15.39.

