---
title: How is Judgement Relinquished?
---

10\. How is Judgment Relinquished?
{: .lesson-header}

Judgment, like other devices by which the world of illusions is
maintained, is totally misunderstood by the world. It is actually
confused with wisdom and substitutes for truth. As the world uses the
term, an individual is capable of “good” and “bad” judgment, and his
education aims at strengthening the former and minimizing the latter.
There is, however, considerable confusion about what these categories
mean. What is “good judgment” to one is “bad judgment” to another.
Further, even the same person classifies the same action as showing
“good” judgment at one time and “bad” judgment at another time. Nor can
any consistent criteria for determining what these categories are be
really taught. At any time, the student may disagree with what his
would-be teacher says about them, and the teacher himself is
inconsistent in what he believes.

<sup>2</sup> “Good judgment” in these terms does not mean anything. No
more does “bad.” It is necessary for the teacher of God to realize not
that he should not judge, but that he cannot. In giving up judgment, he
merely gives up what he did not have. He gives up an illusion; or
better, he has an illusion of giving up. He has actually merely become
more honest. Recognizing that judgment was always impossible for him, he
no longer attempts it. This is no sacrifice. On the contrary, he puts
himself in a position where judgment through him rather than by him can
occur. And this judgment is neither “good” nor “bad.” It is the only
judgment there is, and it is only one: “God's Son is guiltless, and sin
does not exist.”

<sup>3</sup> The aim of our curriculum, unlike the goal of the world's
learning, is the recognition that judgment in the usual sense is
impossible. This is not an opinion, but a fact. In order to judge
anything rightly, one would have to be fully aware of an inconceivably
wide range of things, past, present, and to come. One would have to
recognize in advance all the effects of his judgments on everyone and
everything involved in them in any way. And one would have to be certain
there is no distortion in his perception, so that his judgment would be
wholly fair to everyone on whom it rests, now and in the future. Who is
in a position to do this? Who except in grandiose fantasies would claim
this for himself?

<sup>4</sup> Remember how many times you thought you knew all the
“facts” you needed for judgment, and how wrong you were! Is there anyone
who has not had this experience? Would you know how many times you
merely thought you were right, without ever realizing you were wrong?
Why would you choose such an arbitrary basis for decision-making? Wisdom
is not judgment; it is the relinquishment of judgment. Make then but one
more judgment. It is this—there is Someone with you Whose judgment is
perfect. He does know all the facts, past, present, and to come. He does
know all the effects of His judgment on everyone and everything involved
in any way. And He is wholly fair to everyone, for there is no
distortion in His perception.

<sup>5</sup> Therefore lay judgment down, not with regret but with a
sigh of gratitude. Now are you free of a burden so great that you could
merely stagger and fall down beneath it. And it was all illusion.
Nothing more. Now can the teacher of God rise up unburdened and walk
lightly on. Yet it is not only this that is his benefit. His sense of
care is gone, for he has none. He has given it away, along with
judgment. He gave himself to Him Whose judgment he has chosen now to
trust instead of his own. Now he makes no mistakes. His Guide is sure.
And where he came to judge, he comes to bless. Where now he laughs, he
used to come to weep.

<sup>6</sup> It is not difficult to relinquish judgment. But it is
difficult indeed to try to keep it. The teacher of God lays it down
happily the instant he recognizes its cost. All of the ugliness he sees
about him is its outcome. All of the pain he looks upon is its result.
All of the loneliness and sense of loss, of passing time and growing
hopelessness; of sickening despair and fear of death—all these have come
of it. And now he knows that these things need not be. Not one is true.
For he has given up their cause, and they, which never were but the
effects of his mistaken choice, have fallen from him. Teacher of God,
this step will bring you peace. Can it be difficult to want but this?

