---
title: Are Changes Required in the<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;Life Situation of God's Teachers?
---

9\. Are Changes Required in the Life-Situation of God's Teachers?
{: .lesson-header}

Changes are required in the minds of God's teachers. This may or may not
involve changes in the external situation. Remember that no one is where
he is by accident, and chance plays no part in God's plan. It is most
unlikely that changes in his attitudes would not be the first step in
the newly-made teacher of God's training. There is however no set
pattern, since training is always highly individualized. There are those
who are called upon to change their life situation almost immediately,
but these are generally special cases. By far the majority are given a
slowly-evolving training program in which as many previous mistakes as
possible are corrected. Relationships in particular must be properly
perceived and all dark cornerstones of unforgiveness removed. Otherwise,
the old thought-system still has a basis for return.

<sup>2</sup> As the teacher of God advances in his training, he learns
one lesson with increasing thoroughness. He does not make his own
decisions; he asks his Teacher for His answer, and it is this he follows
as his guide for action. This becomes easier and easier as the teacher
of God learns to give up his own judgment. The giving up of judgment,
the obvious prerequisite for hearing God's Voice, is usually a fairly
slow process, not because it is difficult, but because it is apt to be
perceived as personally insulting. The world's training is directed
toward achieving a goal in direct opposition to that of our curriculum.
The world trains for reliance on one's judgment as the criterion for
maturity and strength. Our curriculum trains for the relinquishment of
judgment as the necessary condition of salvation.

