---
title: How is Peace Possible in this World?
---

11\. How is Peace Possible in this World?
{: .lesson-header}

This is a question everyone must ask. Certainly peace seems to be
impossible. Yet the Word of God promises other things that seem
impossible, as well as this. His Word has promised peace. It has also
promised that there is no death, that resurrection must occur, and that
rebirth is man's inheritance. The world you see cannot be the world God
loves, and yet His Word assures us that He loves the world. God's Word
has promised us that peace is possible here, and what He promises can
hardly be impossible. But it is true that the world must be looked at
differently if His promises are to be accepted. What the world is, is
but a fact. You cannot choose what this should be. But you can choose
how you would see it. Indeed, you must choose this.

<sup>2</sup> Again we come to the question of judgment. This time, ask
yourself whether your judgment or the Word of God is more likely to be
true. For they say different things about the world, and things so
opposite that it is pointless to try to reconcile them. God offers the
world salvation; your judgment would condemn it. God says there is no
death; your judgment sees but death as the inevitable end of life. God's
Word assures you that He loves the world; your judgment says it is
unlovable. Who is right? For one of you is wrong. It must be so.

<sup>3</sup> The text explains that the Holy Spirit is the Answer to all
problems you have made. These problems are not real, but that is
meaningless to those who believe in them. And everyone believes in what
he made, for it was made by his believing it. Into this strange and
paradoxical situation—one without meaning and devoid of sense, yet out
of which no way seems possible—God has sent His Judgment to answer
yours. Gently His Judgment substitutes for yours. And through this
substitution is the ununderstandable made understandable. How is peace
possible in this world? In your judgment it is not possible and can
never be possible. But in the Judgment of God, what is reflected here is
only peace.

<sup>4</sup> Peace is impossible to those who look on war. Peace is
inevitable to those who offer peace. How easily, then, is your judgment
of the world escaped! It is not the world that makes peace seem
impossible. It is the world you see that is impossible. Yet has God's
Judgment on this distorted world redeemed it and made it fit to welcome
peace. And peace descends on it in joyous answer. Peace now belongs
here, because a thought of God has entered. What else but a thought of
God turns hell to Heaven merely by being what it is? The earth bows down
before its gracious Presence, and it leans down in answer to raise it up
again. Now is the question different. It is no longer, “Can peace be
possible in this world?” but instead, “Is it not impossible that peace
be absent here?”

