---
chapter: Twenty Four
ctitle: Specialness and Separation
title: Introduction
ref: Tx.24.I
---

Forget not that the motivation for this course is the attainment and the
keeping of the state of peace. Given this state the mind is quiet, and
the condition in which God is remembered is attained. It is not
necessary to tell Him what to do. He will not fail. Where He can enter,
there He is already. And can it be He cannot enter where He wills to be?
Peace will be yours *because* it is His Will. Can you believe a shadow
can hold back the Will that holds the universe secure? God does not wait
upon illusions to let Him be Himself. No more His Son. They *are*. And
what illusion that idly seems to drift between them has the power to
defeat what is Their will?

2 To learn this course requires willingness to question every value that
you hold. Not one can be kept hidden and obscure but it will jeopardize
your learning. No belief is neutral. Every one has the power to dictate
each decision you make. For a decision is a conclusion based on
everything that you believe. It is the *outcome* of belief and follows
it as surely as does suffering follow guilt and freedom sinlessness.
There *is* no substitute for peace. What God creates *has* no
alternative. The truth arises from what He *knows*. And your decisions
come from your beliefs as certainly as all creation rose in His Mind
*because* of what He knows.

